Analysis (10) Tick

Described and justified the features that make the problem solvable by computational
methods, explaining why it is amenable to a computational approach.
Heading - Features that make the problem solvable by computational methods (1)
Identified suitable stakeholders for the project and described them explaining how they will
make use of the proposed solution and why it is appropriate to their needs.
Heading - Suitable stakeholders (1)
Researched the problem in depth looking at existing solutions to similar problems,
identifying and justifying suitable approaches based on this research.
Heading - Existing solutions (2)
Identified the essential features of the proposed computational solution explaining these
choices.
Heading - Features of the proposed computational (1)
Identified and explained with justification any limitations of the proposed solution.
Heading - Limitations of the proposed solution (1)
Specified and justified the requirements for the solution including (as appropriate) any
hardware and software requirements.
Heading - Requirements for the solution including hardware and software requirements.(2)
Identified and justified measurable success criteria for the proposed solution.
Heading - Success criteria (2)

OCR A-Level Computer Science
Design (15 marks) Tick
Broken the problem down systematically into a series of smaller problems suitable for
computational solutions, explaining and justifying the process
Heading – Decomposing the Problem (1)
Defined in detail the structure of the solution to be developed
Heading - Structure of the solution (2)
Described the solution fully using appropriate and accurate algorithms justifying how these
algorithms form a complete solution to the problem.
Heading – Algorithms (4)
Described, justifying choices made, the usability features to be included in the solution.
Heading - Usability features (1)
Identified and justified the key variables / data structures / classes (as appropriate to the
proposed solution) justifying and explaining any necessary validation.
Heading - Key variables / data structures (2)
Identified and justified the test data to be used during the iterative development of the
solution.
Heading - Test data during the iterative development (3)
Identified and justified any further data to be used in the post development phase.
Heading - Further data to be used in the post development phase (2)

OCR A-Level Computer Science

Developing the coded solution (25 marks) Tick

Iterative development of a coded solution (15 marks)
Provided evidence of each stage of the iterative development process for a coded solution
relating this to the break down of the problem from the analysis stage and explaining
what they did and justifying why.
• Provided evidence of prototype versions of their solution for each stage of the process.
Heading - Prototype versions (3)
• The solution will be well structured and modular in nature. (6)
• Code will be annotated to aid future maintenance of the system. (2)
Heading – Annotated Solution (8)
• All variables and structures will be appropriately named
Heading – Annotated Solution – same as above (1)
• There will be evidence of validation for all key elements of the solution.
Heading – Annotated Solution – same as above (1)
• The development will show review at all key stages in the process.
Heading – Review of Solution (2)
Testing to inform development (10 marks) Tick
Provided evidence of testing at each stage of the iterative development process. (7)
Provided evidence of any failed tests and the remedial actions taken with full
justification for any actions taken. (3)
Heading – Testing at each stage of the iterative development process (10)

OCR A-Level Computer Science
Evaluation (maximum 20 marks) Tick 
Testing to inform evaluation (5 marks)
Provided annotated evidence of post development testing for function and robustness. (3)
Provided annotated evidence for usability testing. (2)
Heading – System Testing and End user testing (5)
Evaluation of solution (15 marks)
Used the test evidence to cross reference with the success criteria to evaluate the solution
explain how the evidence shows that the criteria has been fully, partially or not met in
each case.
Heading – Evaluate the solution (5)
Provided comments on how any partially or unmet criteria could be addressed in further
development.
Heading – Further development. (3)
Provided evidence of the usability features justifying their success, partial success or
failure as effective usability features.
Heading – Effectiveness of usability features. (2)
Considered maintenance issues and limitations of the solution.
Heading – Maintenance issues and limitations of the solution. (2)
Described how the program could be developed to deal with limitations and potential
improvements / changes.
Heading – Limitations and potential improvements / changes. (3)